In this lesson we're going to be looking at Jaison.
So this is a javascript object notation.
And the short format is Jason and we've seen this before that basically it's very similar to javascript
objects although it's slightly different and it's primarily used as a way to transfer information and
data across the Internet.
So previously we might have used x M-L as a format.
And now Jason is quickly replacing SML as the primary way to communicate data between different applications.
There's more information on Wikipedia about Jason and they've got all the whole history Ajay's on here
as well.
And down.
They've got an example of on.
So the main difference and this is what we saw as well earlier that the main difference is that we know
when we're setting a javascript object that we don't need the double quotes around the key.
We only need it around the value.
So it's the same idea that we get these key and these paired values that we have a key and it identifies
translates into a value that's associated with it.
And then with us on we do have the coded around it.
So this is the way that we know that we're actually formatting proper Jaison format.
And that really is just the main difference that the saw in values get the quotes around it and the
regular javascript objects don't need them.
So that's where they resemble each other and the structure is very similar and of course it's also human
readable just like javascript objects.
So let's open up our editors and practice some Jaison so we can set this up.
So we're going to call it my work call it my object 1 and the first one that I'm going to do here.
So this is going to be just a regular javascript object.
So we have the curly brackets and then inside the curly brackets we have these paired values so we have
a key and a value that gets associated with it.
So let's create so I'll call it first and then we separate it with the colon and then afterwards we
can use either we can use a string a number or a boolean.
So let's just create a string here and let's close this one off.
So variable.
And I'm going to do a second one and this one is going to look very similar.
So same idea that we use the square the curly brackets.
And then within sight here I'm going to do first.
But this time I'm not going to use the quotes so I'm just going to do first and colon and then type
in a value that gets associated with it.
So let's refresh the page.
We've got our console opened up here.
So now if I type in my object so if I type in my object 1 or if I type in my object to
we'll see that it returns the exact same thing.
So it looks identical.
And this is why we say it's very similar.
But if I go into and if I take these values into a Linter and the one I get to use is JS song lint dot
com.
So basically what this does is this gives you the ability to basically type add in some code here and
see if it's valid.
JS on format.
So this is also very useful if you've got Jason or javascript object and it's hard to read then you
could paste it in here and make it a lot more readable.
So let me show you what happens.
So first of all we're going to take this one here and you think this one is going to be a valid Jaison
object.
So remember we're looking for quotes.
So if I do validate Jaison I get return back that this is a valid Giese object.
So the second one.
So do you think that this is going to validate or are we going to throw an error.
So what do you think is going to happen when I correct when I press the validate Jaison.
And we know that with Jason The difference is the double quotes and I know I've spent a little bit of
time on this but it's really important to understand that there is a difference between the two.
But when it comes to javascript and once you bring it into javascript they're going to work interchangeably.
So they're going to both work the same way and there's a number of resources like this Jason lint that
you can go to online and you can make use of JS saw in content.
There's another really great resource that I'm also going to be making use of in the upcoming lessons
and this is my face on dot com.
So basically the same idea but it actually allows us to create an online Valot Jase on file so the same
thing that if I type in some Jason it actually creates the on file and then that gives me a URL that
I can go to and I can actually see the Jaison output.
And this is also really useful when we're trying out and we're working with Jason and we're trying to
get comfortable with it that we do have the ability to grab that content online and then we can pull
it into our application so it can get used to looping through.
JS on from external files that are actually not attached into the application so it creates a separation
of the data and the application directly using javascript.
And this is also really important because this gives us the ability to have a lot more dynamic type
applications when we're building these applications online.
And also in the upcoming lessons we're going to be looking at Ajax.
So Ajax gives us a way to transfer Jaison data from one application to another so bringing it into our
javascript and its ideal work using these two together because Ajax looks for data and allows us to
transmit data and then the Jason is a great format for transmitting and transferring data between applications.
And we're going to see a whole lot more of that coming up in upcoming lessons.
So what I want you to do now is to open up your editor create a jigsaw in file and then go to one of
these Web sites either on dot com or on lint or search Google for a Jason Linter and just try it out
type in and paste in some Jason files and see what it looks like when you're pulling that information
out.
And the other thing that I also want you to do as well.
So we're going to create a jigsaw file that's going to be a little bit longer.
So you can go to the one at Wikipedia.
This is a great example because it's got all of this information.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to create my case on file.
That's going to contain this Jason information.
And then in the next lesson we're going to be queering to it.
So that's what I want you to do is to
create an online my Giese on file so that we can access it in the upcoming lessons.
And this is also real important just to kind of get familiar with the format of the sun.
So all of this and more on Jason is coming up in upcoming lessons.